[TOC]

# Taxonomic Identification of Bile Salt Hydrolase-Encoding Lactobacilli: Modulate Enterohepatic Bile Acid Profile
This is the code for multiple omics analysis and visualization in the article by "Taxonomic Identification of Bile Salt Hydrolase-Encoding Lactobacilli: Modulate Enterohepatic Bile Acid Profile"

## Abstract
Bile salt hydrolases (BSHs) are the enzymes that are essential for the enterohepatic metabolism of bile acids (BAs). They catalyze the production of unconjugated BAs and regulate the homeostasis of the BA pool. This study identified Lactobacillus as a crucial BSH-encoding genus based on multivariate analysis of the abundance, diversity, deconjugation ability, specific activity, the number of encoded BSH phylotypes and the number of related diseases. Then, 16 main species of lactobacilli, which encode three BSH phylotypes, were characterized using metagenomic data from publicly available human gut microbiome databases. These include Limosilactobacillus. fermentum, Latilactobacillus. sakei, Lacticaseibacillus. casei, Lacticaseibacillus. rhamnosus, and Lacticaseibacillus. paracasei (BSH-T0); Ligilactobacillus. animalis, Limosilactobacillus. mucosae, Ligilactobacillus. ruminis, Lactiplantibacillus. plantarum, Ligilactobacillus. murinus, and Lactobacillus. delbrueckii (BSH-T2); Limosilactobacillus. reuteri, Lactobacillus. amylovorus, Lactobacillus. acidophilus, and Lactobacillus. gasseri (BSH-T3); Ligilactobacillus. salivarius encoded both BSH-T0 and BSH-T3. The lactobacilli strains encoding BSH-T3 exhibited the highest in vitro deconjugation activities against the seven conjugated BAs. Furthermore, in vivo studies in mice administered four representative lactobacilli strains encoding different BSH phylotypes, showed that treatment with BSH-T3-encoding Limosilactobacillus. reuteri altered the structure of the gut microbiome and metabolome, significantly increased the levels of unconjugated BAs and total BAs excretion. Our findings facilitated the taxonomic identification of crucial BSH-encoding lactobacilli in human gut microbiota and shed light on their contributions to modulating the enterohepatic circulation of BAs, which will contribute to future therapeutic applications of BSH-encoding probiotics to improve human health.

## Graphical Abstract
Based on our previous work, Lactobacillus was identified as a crucial genus encoding bile salt hydrolase (BSH). Sixteen species of lactobacilli were obtained and classified into four typical categories according to BSH phylotypes used in silico approaches. Then, an in vitro detection experiment showed that the deconjugation ability of the lactobacilli strains could be represented as follows: Lac (BSH‐T3) ≈ Ligilactobacillus. salivarius > Lac (BSH‐T2) > Lac (BSH‐T0). Furthermore, in vivo studies of four representative strains from four categories showed that administration of Limosilactobacillus reuteri altered the structure of the gut microbiome and metabolome in mice and modulated the enterohepatic circulation of bile acids (BAs), specifically increasing total BAs and some unconjugated BAs.


## Highlights
- Lactobacillus was identified as a crucial genus encoding bile salt hydrolase (BSH), and 16 main species of lactobacilli were classified into four categories according to BSH phylotypes.
- BSH‐T3‐encoding strains had the highest in vitro deconjugation activities.
- Treatment with BSH‐T3‐encoding Limosilactobacillus reuteri altered the enterohepatic bile acid profile in mice.

